today I am filming a very impromptu but
highly requested video and that is my
top study tips I wanted to keep this
very sort of to the point so I've come
up with my four top tip top tips top
tips
no not top tips I'm probably thinking
Charlotte why you qualified to tell me
how to study and I'm not proclaiming to
be qualified in any way it's just that
people have asked me to film this video
and I do like to film videos that people
have requested just for some background
information I'm 24 years old I'm
currently studying at uni what's working
a lot as well there's a bus going past
my house there we go I have been to
university once before as well I studied
at college before that so I'm very very
accustomed to writing sort of an
academic essay and very very accustomed
to studying at the moment I'm currently
sitting on a first of my degree I'm
doing okay so if you want to also do
okay
then maybe putting into practice some of
my some of the things that help me might
be helpful to you I just don't want to
come across as like a massive big head
because I I don't think I am a massive
big head that I'm quite self-deprecating
about my academic achievements and just
self-deprecating in general to be honest
yeah with my first tip which i think is
the most important thing that I've
learned through my academic career is to
study something that you love the first
time I went to university I was my big
sort of moving away from home experience
I moved to Norwich where I currently
live now and I went to study history of
art I didn't enjoy it I don't like it
and I didn't really try all that much
because I didn't if you're not motivated
by what you're doing then you're just
not going to attain to your full
potential and I didn't get the first
once first time I was at uni I think the
closest I got was maybe two marks off so
a high two one
but I never did get a first now I'm
studying psychology which is
they you tell by my childhood domineers
about mental health and eating sort of
recovery and psychology or something
which I actually have an interest in and
I find it very I feel like I'm learning
a lot and I find it intriguing and it
makes me enthused to want to learn more
and you can probably tell just by the
way I speak about it that I am studying
something that I love my second tip is a
little bit controversial or maybe and I
this is the secret of my success when I
write essays is to always write an essay
plan I started banging the table so my
camera is probably shaking now I know
some people don't do this and I know
some people have applying their mind
maybe but I I like to know exactly what
points I'm going to make have all the
evidence or things I've been of
reference sort of laid out so you don't
have to the Midway for your essay run
off and try and find something to
support the point you've made I just
think it's so much quicker it might take
maybe two or three hours to write an
essay plan and to find all your
information maybe more depending on the
type of essay but once you've done that
you can let you just sit there and write
your essay and just do it and why would
you why would you not want to do that
and so that would be a tip it it works
for me if you have quite if you like
organization like I do if you like to
not be rushed I like to get things in at
least maybe two or three days before the
deadline preferably a week just so that
I have time to you know relax and I feel
like if you are working right at the
last minute and you write it the day
before or the day of the deadline then
you've just got no time to relax because
as soon as you've handed that in there's
another thing that you've got to work on
so that's why I like to give myself time
and be very organized so yes write an
essay plan tip number three is don't
worry about what other people are doing
when I was at UEA I judged myself by the
marks other people were getting and as
this gonna sound so awfully big headed
but I don't even care because it's the
truth I've always got good marks my
camera's gonna be dark I'm sorry I can't
control the lighting cause it's coming
from the window
I can turn this on maybe aah I made a
little bit of difference
I would always judge myself against what
my friends
got on the same essay or what other
people got and it just reason to have it
self confidence so whether you're doing
well or not so well or just sort of
in-between focus on you it doesn't
matter what anyone else got all that
really matters is your marks in relation
to how you should be attaining not
anyone else
I'm tip number four and this is the best
tip that anyone ever told me for writing
an academic essay and I owe this to one
of my tutors at college and this tip is
to write as little as possible and let
me just explain what I mean because
obviously you might have a workout and
say three thousand words for an
assignment and you have to hit those
three thousand words you could be
tempting under attempts and over but you
have to be in that general area now all
I do and this is literally how I get
thirst in essays is that I have an
introduction and a conclusion which is
about ten percent each so 20 percent
over all of the main other three
thousand words say and then I make a
point I find a point that backs up what
the essay is asking me to do I find some
evidence to support it and I explain why
move on repeat the process move on and
repeat the process keep going until you
hit the word limit because word limits
are there for a reason
I've never struggle to hit a word limit
because it's it's there they know what
they want you to write about and they
know how many words that should take it
might not work for you but as I said I
am currently on a first and should I
sell my highest mark has been 96% that's
obviously a really high first and I
really would like to know how I dropped
those four marks because the feedback I
got was not helpful I really want to
know how to make up those four marks but
hopefully you don't think I'm saying
that to brag I'm just saying that my
points work certainly for me they might
not for you and everyone's different
everyone knows in different ways and
blah blah blah all that stuff about
disclaimer blah
everyone's different but people have
asked me for study tips and those are my
top four if you want me to elaborate on
any of those then feel free to comment
down below and we can have a little
discussion you can ask me questions on
tumblr as well I do also have a Twitter
and all the other social media that will
be linked down below and yes I hope
those of you who request in this video
enjoyed it I hope it has helped somewhat
and if you just stumble across this
video I hope it helps you too thank you
for watching and I will see you in my
next video